Testing is awesome,
can also be kind of hard.
Automation, especially for accessibility,
is an important aspect of
building quality software.
Like if you have a test suite with
any automated tests in it, or even if
you don't, you have some opportunities to
let computers help test things for you.
Things that can be
programmatically determined,
computers can help you with that.
There are some things that they can't
tell, they're not that great at and
we still need human review.
Like we still need manual testing.
But if you could bake in a contract for
how something should work,
your teammates, even you in the future,
you come back in January,
like how did that work again,
or whenever after a long break.
It would be more stable and
less inclined to break without anyone
noticing if you have some test coverage.
But it can be kind of hard.
Sometimes, the tooling doesn't support
what you're trying to test, and maybe
you're locked down on an old version of a
library that happened to me two weeks ago,
I went to go update user event and
testing library.
I'm like, la-di-da, here you go, team.
And then I understood why people
aren't as eager to do that.
It's because you have to make everything
work in all these other branches.
You might not be able to go update
all the tests to make them work
with this new upgrade.
So, there's the things that go into
upgrading tooling that are challenging.
You have to schedule them sometimes.
So that's why this can be a bit hard, but
there's a lot you can do with
some basic tools as well.
There is a misconception that everything
in accessibility can be automated.
I've heard executives want to cut their
team staff size, especially when it comes
to training for accessibility because they
think that automation can solve it all.
Sorry, I'm afraid that it can't.
We need humans to review stuff
that humans are going to use.
Kind of intuitive.
So here are the things that we can
automate cuz we do want computers
to help us plus we want
to make our jobs easier.
So we can automate html and aria
validation like typescript is great for
this like we were talking about
it can catch when you have do
something wrong with your markup.
Form labels, we can catch that, we can
catch color contrast most of the time,
I do have in the manual column
contrast over images and gradients,
a bit harder to check.
Text over video, yeah good luck.
That's very manual to test.
Accessible names, so like icon buttons,
you know you have an icon button
component, they have a prop for
you to pass text.
Text in, like does it land in the right
place internally in the component?
Focus management for keyboard stuff, those
are some of my favorite tests to write
because you can assert did focus
move where you expected and
the tools have gotten better for
that in the last few years.
You can also test the document language in
a page level test like like using Cyprus.
As for the manual stuff,
you can't really test focus order.
If it's jumping around in a weird order,
what's the computer gonna say about that?
Text alternative quality.
So if you have the wrong alt text on
something, or yeah, it's just not right.
The tooling can tell you
when all text is missing,
it can't really tell you if it's not good.
Screen reader testing, we can't automate
that, we can run things in the cloud with
the system labs but as for assertions with
screen readers, we're not quite there yet.
That'd be cool to see more of, I know
there's some experiments around that but
nothing mainstream.
Contrast, we talked about
error identification,
if you have the wrong content
of your errors in validation.
Computer can't really help you there.
And then click events on divs.
The computer doesn't know
what it doesn't know about.
It's kind of like a blind person.
It won't know.
So as for estimates of how much
of what CAG we can automate,
it's around 50% of issues by volume.
Sometimes estimates are higher,
but I think it's yeah,
it's not always consistent.
So it's by volume,
like the number of issues that you
could possibly have on a page.
It's not my success criterion.
And that's only from DQ,
that's their estimate.
And I think I chose
the lower end of the number.
But all of their rule descriptions for
XCOR I have linked so
you can go see what they cover.
And they are also very involved with the
standard side of accessibility rules for
automation, the ACT Rules Group,
which stands for
Accessibility Confirm Performance testing.
So just trying to make this stuff
repeatable, more standard, so
that different tools aren't so
wildly different in what they report.
So that's pretty cool.
But we definitely still
need some manual testing.
And I have an article in here by
Eric Bailey on Smashing Magazine.
He does a really eloquent job of
explaining why we still need manual
testing, so check that out.
So create your own coverage, I think
some of the best stuff you can do for
automation is to write feature tests for
the components that you know a lot about.
You know how that component should work.
You've got the requirements specs.
You've got insider knowledge
on how it was coded.
So if you can write tests
that assert the outcomes,
does my focus go to the right place.
I'm not going to test
the internal logic of it.
I'm going to test,
does it have the right outcome?
Write inputs, create the right outputs.
Keyboard tests are great for that.
You can test that kind of thing.
And they're fun to do with tools
like testing library and gest.
It can be tricky to capture
exactly how the browser works.
So make sure when you're
writing these tests,
compare your tests with
how the browser works.
Because if it's passing
the automated test, but
it doesn't work as in the browser,
your test isn't effective.
That would be what I
call a tautological test.
It's kind of not testing anything useful.
But it's really hard to tell.
So you have to check it in real browser.
Like, say I can capture
the test failure and
do test-driven development style like TDD.
I can capture the failure,
I think I go and fix it, I'm gonna go and
check manually just to make sure,
like as part of my automated test process.
So that when I check that code in,
I know that it actually could
reproduce that bug and it's fixed now.